Kubernetes Runtime (#49236)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/executors/deploy_executors_kubernetes.md

</aside>

> NOTE: This feature is available in Sourcegraph 5.1.0 and later.

[Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph) are provided to deploy Sourcegraph Executors
on a running Kubernetes cluster. If you are deploying Sourcegraph with helm, charts are
available [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm).

## Requirements

### RBAC Roles

Executors interact with the Kubernetes' API to handle jobs. The following are the RBAC Roles needed to run Executors on Kubernetes.

| API Groups | Resources          | Verbs                     | Reason                                                                                    |
|------------|--------------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `batch`    | `jobs`             | `create`, `delete`, `get` | Executors create Job pods to run processes. Once Jobs are completed, they are cleaned up. |
|            | `pods`, `pods/log` | `get`, `list`, `watch`    | Executors need to look up and steam logs from the Job Pods.                               |

### Environment Variables

> The following are Environment Variables that are specific to the Kubernetes runtime. See other possible Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are Environment Variables that are specific to the Kubernetes runtime. These environment variables can be set on the Executor `Deployment` and will configure the `Job`s that it spawns.

See other possible Environment
```

Not sure this is 100% the right wording but I think it makes sense to note here that this configuration should be set on the `Deployment` and will modify the generated `Job`s.

| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEMORY   | `1Gi`          | The memory resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                         |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU    | `1`            | The maximum CPU resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                    |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEMORY | `1Gi`          | The maximum memory resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                 |

### Example Configuration YAML

The following is an example YAML file that can be used to deploy an Executor instance on Kubernetes.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: executor
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: executor
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: executor
    spec:
      hostNetwork: true
      serviceAccountName: executor-service-account
      containers:
        - name: executor
          # Update the image tag to the version that matches your Sourcegraph instance.
          image: sourcegraph/executor-kubernetes:5.1.0

>           imagePullPolicy: Never

Reviewer: If `Never` is set, the user would have to manually prepull the image or transfer it to the Kubernetes note manually. 

> Never
> the kubelet does not try fetching the image. If the image is somehow already present locally, the kubelet attempts to start the container; otherwise, startup fails. See [pre-pulled images](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#pre-pulled-images) for more details.

I think a better default / recommendation might be to set `IfNotPresent` which should only pull the image the first time

> IfNotPresent
> the image is pulled only if it is not already present locally.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#image-pull-policy

          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
          env:
            - name: EXECUTOR_FRONTEND_URL
              # The URL of the Sourcegraph instance to connect to.
              value: https://my.sourcegraph.com
            - name: EXECUTOR_FRONTEND_PASSWORD
              # The shared secret between the executor and the Sourcegraph instance.

>               value: my-password

Reviewer: Environment variables are stored in plaintext on the Kubernetes server and are often visible from web frontends like GKE or what have you. This isn't the most sensitive string in the world but it probably should be recommended that it's set in a `Secret` and [mounted here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-secrets-as-environment-variables) instead of having it as a raw environment variable.

|            | `pods`, `pods/log` | `get`, `list`, `watch`    | Executors need to look up and steam logs from the Job Pods.                               |

### Environment Variables

The following are Environment Variables that are specific to the Kubernetes runtime. These environment variables can be
set on the Executor `Deployment` and will configure the `Job`s that it spawns.

| Name                                        | Default Value  | Description                                                                                                            |
|---------------------------------------------|:---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_CONFIG_PATH             | N/A            | The path to the Kubernetes configuration file. If not specified, the in cluster config is used.                        |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_NODE_NAME               | N/A            | The name of the Kubernetes Node to create Jobs in. If not specified, the Pods are created in the first available node. |

> | EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_NAMESPACE               | `default`      | The namespace of to assign the Jobs to.                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_NAMESPACE               | `default`      | The namespace to create the Jobs in.                                                                                |
```

| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_PERSISTENCE_VOLUME_NAME | `executor-pvc` | The name of the Executor Persistence Volume. Must match the `PersistentVolumeClaim` configured for the instance.       |

> | EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU      | `1`            | The CPU resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                            |
> | EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEMORY   | `1Gi`          | The memory resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                         |
> | EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU    | `1`            | The maximum CPU resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                    |
> | EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEMORY | `1Gi`          | The maximum memory resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU      | `1`            | The maximum CPU resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                            |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEMORY   | `1Gi`          | The maximum memory resource limit for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                         |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU    | `1`            | The minimum CPU resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                    |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEMORY | `1Gi`          | The minimum memory resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                 |
```

| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_CPU                       | `1`            | The maximum CPU resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                                          |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_LIMIT_MEMORY                    | `1Gi`          | The maximum memory resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                                       |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_CPU                     | `1`            | The minimum CPU resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                                          |
| EXECUTOR_KUBERNETES_RESOURCE_REQUEST_MEMORY                  | `1Gi`          | The minimum memory resource for Kubernetes Jobs.                                                                                       |

See other possible Environment Variables [here](./deploy_executors_binary.md#step-2-setup-environment-variables).

### Example Configuration YAML

> The following is an example YAML file that can be used to deploy an Executor instance on Kubernetes.

Author: Good idea. One less place to keep in sync

  name: executor-job-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: ["batch"]
    resources: ["jobs"]
    verbs: ["get", "create", "delete"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: executor-log-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods", "pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get", "list", "watch"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: executor-job-role-binding
  namespace: default
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: executor-service-account
    namespace: default
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: executor-job-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: executor-log-role-binding
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: executor-service-account
roleRef:
  kind: Role
  name: executor-log-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

## Deployment

Executors on Kubernetes require specific RBAC rules to be configured in order to operate correctly.
See [RBAC Roles](#rbac-roles) for more information.

### Step-by-step Guide

Ensure you have the following tools installed.
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

> - [Helm](https://helm.sh/) if you're installing Sourcegraph with helm.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine like this for the time being 👍

#### Deployment via kubectl (Kubernetes manifests)

1. Clone the [deploy-sourcegraph](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph) repository to your local machine.
2. Run `cd deploy-sourcegraph/configure/executors`.
3. Configure the [Executor environment variables](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/deploy_executors_binary#step-2-setup-environment-variables) in the `executor/executor.deployment.yaml` file.
4. Run  `kubectl apply -f . --recursive` to deploy all components.
5. Confirm executors are working by checking the _Executors_ page under _Site Admin_ > _Executors_ > _Instances_ .

#### Deployment via Helm

1. Clone the [deploy-sourcegraph-helm](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-helm) repository to your local machine.
2. Run `cd deploy-sourcegraph-helm/charts/sourcegraph-executor`.
3. Edit the `values.yaml` with any other customizations you may require.
4. Run the following command:

>    1. `helm upgrade --install -f values.yaml --version 5.1.0 sg-executor sourcegraph/sourcegraph-executor`

Reviewer 2: I think it's a bit odd to publish docs containing versions that don't exist yet

Author: I'll just remove any reference to helm for now

5. Confirm executors are working by checking the _Executors_ page under _Site Admin_ > _Executors_ > _Instances_ .

For more information on the components being deployed see the [Executors readme](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/configure/executors/README.md).

## Note

> Executors deployed in kubernetes do not use [Firecracker](executors.md#how-it-works).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Executors deployed on Kubernetes do not use [Firecracker](executors.md#how-it-works).
```
